Scopes.
A lot of people use Maven without ever taking advantage of scopes.
You can get along fine with that if you just want to use it to download
dependencies and transitive dependencies and it's great.
There are some scopes though that are particularly worth
mentioning that I want to point out to you.
I'm going to run through what these six scopes available for your
dependencies are and highlight a couple of key ones for you.
Compile is the default scope. You don't have to
explicitly list it, it's implicitly implied.
In the previous example I had it on there.
If I had omitted it, it'll compile just fine.
That's what the default is.
It's available.
It means all of my resources are available everywhere inside of my application.
The next one that's probably the main one that you should know
is provided. Provided is a lot like compile.
It means that the artifact is going to be available
throughout the entire build cycle.
In one of the previous modules we talked about phases,
the different phases that we have. You know,
test and when we go to package, and we have everything that all of our
artifact is going to be available throughout all of the code,
but that's not going to package it up at the end.
A good example of this is something like the Servlet API or the XML APIs.
It's available in our phases,
but not included in the final artifact. And we don't want to
include it because it will be provided by the container that
we are deploying our app to.
Another interesting one is runtime.
Runtime is not needed for compilation, but it's needed for execution.
So dynamically loaded libraries are things like JDBC jars, items that
we need a driver that's dynamically loaded at runtime. Say we're using
JDBC to connect to a database. We're going to do a Class.forName or a
DriverManager load resource, something like that,
something that's dynamically loaded.
We need that bundled with our application.
It's actually kind of the opposite of provided. You don't
need it for testing, you don't even need it for compiling,
you don't need to package it,
but you need it for your application to run. Now another
interesting scope is the test scope.
Testing is only available for the test compilation and execution phase.
It does nothing for compiling.
It does nothing for packaging.
It's also not included in our final artifact.
A good example of this would be the JUnit or TestNG jars.
Now system, I'm going to point out to you to never use.
System is very brittle and actually breaks the whole
reason of why we want to use Maven.
I have seen people use this once or twice before
and it's always lead to problems.
Basically, you're going to hard code a path to a jar on your file system.
This is why we're using Maven. Don't use system.
Why do they have it, you might ask, to just simply tie
existing projects into a Maven build.
The last one is import.
This is an advanced topic.
It deals with dependency management,
which is something we're not going to cover in this course.
Dependency management deals with sharing resources across multiple POMs, and it's kind of an advanced topic that we're just not going to cover here.